# SpringMVCFilmCRUD Group Project

Link to Project on AWS

## Team

Mike Murrell
Braiden Miller
Jimmy Fruchterman

## Objectives

Create a full-stack Spring MVC web application that allows users to create, update, 
retrieve, and delete persistent records.

Collaborate using a shared gitHub repository and communicate using Slack.

## Requirements

- The project source is pushed to Github.
- All user stories are implemented
- The project has a detailed README.md
- Each team will present their work to the class.


## How to use our program

Our program is in the folder 'MVCFilmSite' and accessed through a STS4 workspace. Select 
'Run on server' and it will load our homepage from 'home.jsp'.

From there you can choose to add a film or search for a film by Id or keyword. Selecting
add a film will take you to a page where you can enter the details of the film into text
boxes and then click 'Submit'. This will then load the same Create Film table with the 
details of the movie you just made below, along with the unique Id that was generated 
when the film was added to the database. Below that are buttons that allow you to either
edit or delete the film. You can also fill the text boxes above and add another film to 
the database. If you choose edit, it will load a page displaying the film's Id, with text 
boxes for changing the title, year, length, rating, category, and description, and a nav 
bar at the top with tabs for 'Home', 'Edit Film', 'Create Film' and 'Look Up a Film'. 
Once you change the fields you wish to change, select the submit option. You are then 
shown the same page but with the details of the newly updated film below the text boxes 
that are reloaded with the new updated details. The updated film below will also have drop
down menus for the cast, and the inventory of that film by store, as well as the always-
shown edit and delete options.

If from the home page you select 'Search for a film by Id or Keyword' you'll go to a page
that has an option to search in either fashion. If you search by Id, you will be taken to 
a page showing the film with the Id, title, year, length, rating, category, description, 
cast and inventory, as well as options to delete or edit the film. If you delete the film,
you the film will go away and it will display "Film Deleted". You will still be able to 
search for more films. If you choose to search with a Keyword, it will search the titles 
and descriptions for the keyword and return every movie matching the keyword with details
and edit and delete options. You also have a nav bar at the top to return home or Create 
a Film.

Thanks for using our web site!


## What we did

We built a full-stack web program that uses Java and SQL to search for, add, edit, and 
delete films from a database. We styled the front end with HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap and 
generated dynamic web pages with JSP's.

The program uses a controller, called 'FilmController.java' to handle POST and GET 
requests from our JSP's, and call methods on a DatabaseAccessorObject Object to interact 
with our database. From our homepage at home.jsp, you can choose to either add a 
film or search for a film by its ID or by a keyword in its title or description. If you 
choose to add a film, it will be routed by GET method createFilm at "createFilm.do" and 
will take you to a page generated by createFilm.jsp. Here we use an overloaded createFilm 
POST method to build a Film object from the data taken from the user inputs on the web 
page. We then use our DatabaseAccessorObject to build a prepared statement from 
that data and insert it into the database, and then return the generated keys so that we 
can attach that ID to the film and then show the added film. This then gives two Bootstrap
-generated buttons to either edit or delete. 




